Reorganize the databases pages (#2883)
Scalingo/documentation: src/_posts/databases/2000-01-01-maintenance-windows.md

   ```
3. From the command line, run the following command to get more details about a
   specific maintenance operation:
   ```bash
   scalingo --app my-app --addon <database_type> database-maintenance-info <maintenance_uuid>
   ```
   With:
   - `database_type`: must be either `postgresql`, `mysql`, `redis`, `mongodb`,
     `elasticsearch` or `influxdb`, depending on the database addon
   - `maintenance_uuid`: id of the maintenance operation

   The output should look like this:
   ```
   +------------+----------------------------------------------+
   | ID         | 656ddbd39307d5ec79ff748b                     |
   | Type       | db-node-migration                            |
   | Started At | Next Maintenance Window: 2023/12/08 12:00:00 |
   | Ended At   |                                              |
   | Status     | scheduled                                    |
   +------------+----------------------------------------------+
   ```

## Sharing the Information With Your Team

By default, owner and collaborators receive email notifications one day before
a scheduled maintenance execution. This notification system operates via the

> [App notifications](/platform/app/notification) feature and the "default

Reviewer: issue: please use `post_url` to include links

---
title: Database Maintenance Windows
nav: Maintenance Windows
modified_at: 2024-11-28 12:00:00
tags: databases maintenance
index: 5
---

## Understanding Database Maintenance Windows

**Database Maintenance Windows** is Scalingo's system for scheduling
*[maintenance operations](#understanding-maintenance-operations)* on your
databases. On the customer's side, it mainly consists in an 8 hours timespan
during which database maintenance operations can be scheduled. The goal of
maintenance windows is to minimize the impact of maintenance operations on your
application, while facilitating continuous improvement on our side.

{% note %}
Currently, Scalingo only leverages maintenance windows to force
[major-upgrades]({% post_url databases/postgresql/2000-01-01-upgrading %})
of databases when very specific conditions are met, such as an EOL version
still running, or critical security issues.

> {% endnote %}

Reviewer: question: are you sure about this? I don't think it's the only reason we want to use maintenance windows. I think we also want this for minor upgrades or things like that.

Author: I chose to remove the note, as we already explain what Maintenance Operations are.
Seems way more future-proof like this. Thanks!

A default 8 hours maintenance window is automatically assigned to all newly
provisioned database. This maintenance window is set to a random weekday,
from 9PM to 5AM UTC.

If the given timeframe doesn't align with your business requirements, please
[adjust it as needed](#configuring-a-database-maintenance-window). We strongly
advise to schedule the maintenance window when your app is less prone to high
traffic (e.g. the night between Sunday and Monday) to minimize undesired
consequences such as a possible downtime.

{% note %}
Database Maintenance Windows are excluded from the SLA calculation.
{% endnote %}

## Viewing Database Maintenance Windows

### Using the Database Dashboard

> 1. From your web browser, [open your database dashboard]({% post_url databases/postgresql/2000-01-01-getting-started %}#accessing-the-scalingo-for-postgresql-dashboard)

Reviewer: question: this link targets a PostgreSQL-specific page whereas we are on a page that is more general for all database types. Doesn't it feel odd?

Author: Indeed, I removed the links.
Thanks <3

### Using the Command Line

1. Make sure you have correctly [setup the Scalingo command line tool]({% post_url platform/cli/2000-01-01-start %})
2. From the command line, run the following command to view the maintenance
   window settings:
   ```bash
   scalingo --app my-app addons-info <database_type>
   ```
   With:
   - `database_type`: must be either `postgresql`, `mysql`, `redis`, `mongodb`,
     `elasticsearch` or `influxdb`, depending on the database addon

   The output should look like this:
   ```text
   +------------------------+------------------------------+
   | Database Type          | postgresql                   |
   | Version                | 13.11.0-1                    |
   | Status                 | running                      |
   | Plan                   | postgresql-starter-512       |
   | Force TLS              | disabled                     |
   | Internet Accessibility | disabled                     |
   | Maintenance window     | Tuesdays at 22:00 (08 hours) |
   +------------------------+------------------------------+
   ```

## Configuring Database Maintenance Windows

Maintenance windows can be configured separately for each database addon. To

> configure it, you'll have to pick a weekday and a start time.

Reviewer: issue(non-blocking): I don't really like using this kind of contraction in written documents
```suggestion
configure it, you will have to pick a weekday and a start time.
```

   | ID         | 656ddbd39307d5ec79ff748b                     |
   | Type       | db-node-migration                            |
   | Started At | Next Maintenance Window: 2023/12/08 12:00:00 |
   | Ended At   |                                              |
   | Status     | scheduled                                    |
   +------------+----------------------------------------------+
   ```

## Sharing the Information With Your Team

By default, owner and collaborators receive email notifications one day before
a scheduled maintenance execution. This notification system operates via the
[App notifications](/platform/app/notification) feature and the "default
notifier" which is configured for each app. Please check if it is still active
or configure another notifier for this purpose.
It can easily be configured to suit your preferences. For instance, if you
prefer webhook notifications over email, you can easily configure this setting
(or create a new dedicated notifier). Additionally, you have the option to
filter the list of recipients or provide a service address for individuals who
need to be notified but do not have a Scalingo account.

> Three new events have been added:

Reviewer: issue: I don't think there is a concept of something "new" in such documentation page. I mean, in a 5 years, will it still make sense that they are "new"?
 ```suggestion
There are three events about database maintenance:
```
